---
title: "My 2024 Year in Books"
date: 2024-12-11T08:00:00-06:00
---

Here's another Year in Books (I missed last year, but here's [2022](books-2022.md)).

Most of these came from recommendations by friends, [*The Incomparable*'s Book
Club](https://www.theincomparable.com/theincomparable/bookclub/) and (a new
source), the "Books in the Box" episodes of [Oxide and
Friends](https://oxide.computer/podcasts/oxide-and-friends).

## *The Soul of a New Machine*, by Tracy Kidder

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7090.The_Soul_of_a_New_Machine"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1627012239i/7090.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

I technically read it in the last few days of 2023, but included here because I
liked it so much. This came recommended by the Oxide and Friends podcast's
[Books in the Box](https://oxide.computer/podcasts/oxide-and-friends/955244)
episode. I didn't know a ton about the history of computing, but have been
picking up an appreciation for it thanks to reading this book. It goes into a
ton of detail about what it took Data General to design and release a new
machine. Highly recommended to anyone interested in computing.

## More Murderbot Diaries

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53413743-fugitive-telemetry"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1620520604i/53413743.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

I got caught up on Martha Well's Murderbot Diaries series, finishing both
*Fugitive Telemetry* and *System Collapse*. These continue to be so enjoyable.
([This Wired
piece](https://www.wired.com/story/murderbot-she-wrote-martha-wells/) about
Martha Wells and the series is in my reading list).

## *Nona the Ninth*, by Tamsyn Muir

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58662507-nona-the-ninth"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1643298298i/58662507.jpg" width="200px"></a>

This is third installment in her Locked Tomb series. I don't remember a ton of details from the plot, but I do recall

1. This feeling very different from the previous entries (each of which felt different from their predecessors)
2. A general feeling of discomfort and tension, like things could explode at any time, which I think was deliberate

It's not as simple to describe as "lesbian necromancers in space" like the
*Gideon the First*, but overall, I enjoyed it.

## The Cemeteries of Amalo series, by Katherine Addison

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41302953-the-witness-for-the-dead"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1603852509i/41302953.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

These are set in the same universe as *The Goblin Emperor*, but follow a
different main character. I didn't love these quite as much as *The Goblin
Emperor* (which is just... perfect), but the writing in these is still great.
Don't expect a ton from the plot. These are still more about the world and
characters moving through it than anything else.

## *The Hunt for Red October*, by Tom Clancy

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19691.The_Hunt_for_Red_October"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1281995542i/19691.jpg" width="200px"/>

This is probably a sign that I'm entering middle age, but yeah this was a fun
read. I think I picked this up after Bobby Chesney and Steve Vladek were
reminiscing about Clancy novels on the [NSL
podcast](https://www.nationalsecuritylawpodcast.com). I didn't make it through
*Patriot Games*, though, so maybe I still have some youth in me?

## *Bookshops and Bonedust* by Travis Baldree

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65213543-bookshops-bonedust"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1678122626i/65213543.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

This is a prequel to *Legends & Lattes*. If you enjoyed that, you'll enjoy this one too.

## *Lord of the Rings* by J.R.R. Tolkien

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61215384-the-return-of-the-king"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1654216226i/61215384.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

Me and my 8-year old have been working our way through these. We finished *The
Two Towers* earlier in the year and will wrap up *Return of the King* this week.
I'm not sure how much he appreciates all the detailed descriptions of the
scenery, but he seems to be mostly following the plot. They continue to be
perfect.

## *A Short History of Nearly Everything* by Bill Bryson

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21.A_Short_History_of_Nearly_Everything"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1433086293i/21.jpg" width="200px"/>

I didn't learn a ton of *new* actual science from this (humblebrag). If you have
a decent high school or liberal arts education you'll hopefully be familiar with
most of the concepts. But I'd recommend reading it regardless because of all the
background on the history and people involved in the discoveries (which my
courses didn't cover) and for the great writing. Also, I just love the idea of
trying to cover *everything* in a single, general-audience book.

## *The Golden Enclaves* by Naomi Novik

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55858638-the-golden-enclaves"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1642265345i/55858638.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

This is the third in the Scholomance trilogy. The first couple were great. The
first especially was very fun, almost pop-corn fantasy (despite a *lot* of
death. Like a lot). But this one somehow is *way* deeper, and in a way that
makes you reevaluate the previous books. It's maybe less "fun" because of where
the story goes, but still great. I read this more recently but it's stuck with
me.

## *Jonathan Strange & Mr Norell* by Susanna Clarke

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14201.Jonathan_Strange_Mr_Norrell"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1357027589i/14201.jpg" width="200px"/></a>

This is a bit hard to review. It does seem to be long (I read it on a Kobo, but
wow I see now that Goodreads says 1,006 pages). And while stuff happens, it's
not exactly action packed. Still, I never felt bored reading it, and I was able
to follow things clearly the entire time. I think the characters were just so
well written that she could bring back a character we haven't heard from in 400
pages and have us immediately understand who they are and why they're doing what
they're doing.

Susanna Clarke also wrote
[*Piranesi*](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50202953-piranesi) which I
still think about from time to time, and would highly recommend (despite even
less happening in that book).

## *This is How You Lose the Time War* by Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone

<a href="https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43352954-this-is-how-you-lose-the-time-war"><img src="https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1653185078i/43352954.jpg" width="200px"></a>

This was a reread (I needed something short after the tome that was *Jonathan
Strange & Mr Norell*), but this book had stuck with me since I first read it in
2021. It's just so, *so* good. I guess it's technically a romance set in a
Sci-Fi world, which isn't my usual genera. But I loved it mainly for the
writing.

The setting is somewhat interesting, but that's not really the point: two
factions are in a struggle spanning multiple universes ("strands", in the book).
Their agents can travel through time and between strands, and embed themselves
in various situations to nudge events along a favorable path. I love a good
time-travel book, even if they don't get into the mechanics.

The characters are somewhat interesting, but they're also not *really* the
point. We don't get ton of detail about them (not even their real names; just
get "Red" and "Blue").

And the plot is also somewhat interesting, but I think still not the point.
Stuff happens. They write letters to each other. More stuff happens. They fall
in love. More stuff happens.

To me, it really comes down to the beautiful writing (with just enough structure
around it to make all that flowery prose feel appropriate). I mean... just
listen: "I distract myself. I talk of tactics and of methods. I say how I know
how I know. I make metaphors to approach the enormous fact of you on slant."

Overall, I'd recommend this to just about anyone. Plus, it's short enough that
it's not a huge time commitment if it's not your cup of tea.

## Other

Some honorable, non-book mentions that I've started reading this year:

- The [Money Stuff](https://www.bloomberg.com/account/newsletters/money-stuff) newsletter from Matt Levine for money stuff
- The [One First](https://www.stevevladeck.com) newsletter from Steve Steve Vladeck for legal stuff
- [Simon Willison's blog](https://simonwillison.net) for AI stuff
- [Marc Brooker's blog](https://brooker.co.za/blog/) for distributed computing stuff

Overall, a solid year! My full list is [on Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/82176424?page=1&ref=nav_mybooks) Reach out to me if you have any questions or recommendations.
